Basics:
npm run start  - inside graphql-basics folder
Git initialized folder: GRAPHQL-COURSE-2
docker ps   docker kill  docker rm
somehow prisma api playground is at localhost 4466
somehow node.js playground is at localhost 4000

Lessons:
Section 1
Lectures

Section 2 - Graphql basics schemas and queries
9 - set up babel and npm init
10 - an import/export lesson, I skipped
11 - set up index.js with graphql-yoga, defined typedef and resolver objects
12 - lesson on scalar types - skipped
13 - Nodemon added npm install nodemon --save-dev, changed package.json start script to run nodemon through babel     "start": "nodemon src/index.js --exec babel-node",
14 - creating custom types
15 - operation arguments, 
    added greeting with an optional name argument
    there are 4 arguments passed to every resolver: (parent, args, ctx, info)
16 - arrays intro, did not push
17 - array partII, custom array
18 - relational data did not push
19 - relational data: arrays
20 - comment challenge set up, aded type Comment to type defs, set up dummy comments data, set up a query->comments resolver
21 - comment challenge: comment user relationship
22 - comment challenge: comment post relationship established in type field and resolvers

Section 3: mutations
23: lecture?
24: set up first mutation, added uuid dependancy for randomly generated id, uuid documentation has multiple ways it can produce id's
25: createPost and createComment mutations added - Currently getting an erro in playground about non-nullable field when I use the createPost mutation
26: added rest spread operator, also plugins to .babelrc
    
    npm install babel-plugin-transform-object-rest-spread
    npm WARN apollo-cache-control@0.1.1 requires a peer of graphql@0.10.x - 0.13.x but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
    npm WARN apollo-server-core@1.4.0 requires a peer of graphql@^0.9.0 || ^0.10.0 || ^0.11.0 || ^0.12.0 || ^0.13.0 but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
    npm WARN apollo-tracing@0.1.4 requires a peer of graphql@0.10.x - 0.13.x but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
    npm WARN graphql-extensions@0.0.10 requires a peer of graphql@0.10.x - 0.13.x but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
    npm WARN graphql-subscriptions@0.5.8 requires a peer of graphql@^0.10.5 || ^0.11.3 || ^0.12.0 || ^0.13.0 but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
    npm WARN grap
    a preset is nothing more than a collection of plugins grouped together to provide some cohesive behavior
    in this case we added the plugin seperatly for some reason
-
27: defined input types createUser, createPost, and createComment to make argument inputs easier to handle,  and updated resolver with args.data. 
28/29: added delete user mutation/ added deletePost and deleteComment mutations
30: structure refactoring: created schema.graphql - good lesson to watch again to understand ctx, etc.
        # connected to index via Graphql server path directory at bottom of index.js
    since nodmon does not autmatically look at schema.graphql files we connected nodemon via
    extension configuration tool using the ext argument in start scripts
    moved static data to it's own file - structure (via db.js) will be same as when we are using a real database
    context property discussed to use with db.js - added context to the gqlyoga object at bottom of index.js
    import db.js to index.js
    desctructured ctx to access db.js
31: refactor into seperate files to resolvers folder
    imported each file into index.js, and added them to a resolvers oject in the gql server
32: added updateUser mutation to schema
33a: added updatePost mutation - on my own
33b: added updateComment mutation - initially I forgot to return comment which resulted in playground warning: cannont return null for non-nullable

Section 4: subscriptions
34: intruduction lecture
35: set up a dummy introductory subscriptions
36: set up a comment subscription in subscription.js and called pubsub on createComment in mutation.js
37: post subscription challenge - fell flat on my face - need to walk through again how everything refrences each other
38: post subscription added
39: comment subscription challenge
40: enums: added enum mutationtype to shchema.graphql and modified payload mutation fields as necessary

PartII
Section 5: 
41: Section introduction video 
42: Prisma introduction prisma is an ORM  that works with any database
43: pirsma initial setup with sqldatabase at heroku
    heroku: resources -> search for heroku postgres -> name and provision it
    -> view credentials
    he set up docker
44: windows setup
45:ubunto setup
46: set up prisma, 
    created graphgl-prisma folder,
    prisma init, naming it prisma, SSL Y, don't generate language, removed schema property from docker-compose, 
    docker-compsose up -d prisma deploy
    at this point there is a playground at localhost:4466 which is on the prisma api
    the cool thing about prisma is that it writes the mutations queries, and subsciptions for whatever types we have defined in datamodel.prisma for us




47: explored mutations and queries using playground docs
    wrote first user to database and explored postgres db via pgadmin did not push
48/49: added type Post and type comment to datamodel.graphql
50: start integrating node.js and prisma api - see notes for all that happened
    copied node-modules src .babelrc notes package-lock.json package.json from graphql-basics project folder to graphql-prisma project folder
    configured prisma-binding - bindings for node.js
    npm install prisma-binding
    created prisma.js in src
    npm install graphql-cli in orde to use it's get-schema funtionality within prisma.js via package.json
    created .graphqlconfig in project root folder and set language mode to json
    created generated folder inside source folder
    added get-schema script to package.json
    npm run get-schema to auto build a file with schemas in the generated folder with a file name of prisma.graphql as we specified in .graphqlconfig file
    so if we modify our datamodel.graphql file we must prisma deploy and also run the get-schema script
51: using node.js to write to db
    import prisma to index.js
    set up prisma.query.users in prisma.js
    set up prisma.query.comments in prisma.js and outputted to console as challenge
52: node mutations added to prisma.js - working but see notes
    added createPost and updatePost mutations in prisma.js

53 - async/await with prisma binding - queries have unhandled promises for some reason
54 - added prisma.exists, refactored query selection set in createPostForUser
    challege refactor updatepostforuser function with prisma.exists
    my solution came back as undefined: I had been returning return post.postId when I needed to return return post.author, but that was not the problem
    when I use an invalid postid i do get my catch call
    when I use a valid postid i get back undefined.  hmmm.
    I changed my data from pubished: false to published: true and I get back an error: address already in use plus undefined
    killed server, restarted, I get undefined again.  hmmm.
55 - set up @relation on datamodel.graphql
    NOTE TO SELF:  Need to come up with a better way to name/organize
    all the different graphql/datamodel/ files to better keep track in 
    my head as to what they all do/what they are for - easy to get them confused
    onDelete relation CommentToUser is currently in violation
56 - challenge, dublicated prisma folder to prisma-review-website folder, deleted docker file, changed endpoint prisma.yml of new folder to service name review/default which created no space in database(review = project name, default = stage name)
57 - set up and ran first playground go around on book-review project

Section 6 authentication
58 - intro video
59 - added prisma to context 
    in order to change 4000 eyes in resolvers from static data and instead to prisma database 
    comment out all but connection info then export prisma.js
    node.js goes between user graphql api
60 - prisma added to context in query.js then used to perform where filtering
61 - refactored Query.js to let prisma do heavy lifting
    we wiped functions out of Query.js and post.js in order to take advantage of prisma's heavy lifting capacity
62 - added prisma to Mutation.js thereby moving eyes from static data to the heroku postgres db
64 - finished refactor of mutation.js to use prisma

65 - changed schema.graphql to align node and prisma playground mutations - 
    I cannont for the life of me get a create comment mutation to work in the 4000 playground
    comment subscription is not working.  when I update a comment it seems to update ok as I do get a return value, but the subscription just spins circles
    no I suddenly get an unkown argument when I try to start my comment subscription
66 - set prisma secret
    on the prisma side: change prisam/prisma.yml, add secret, changes to prisma.yml require a re-deploy from prisma folder
    on the node side: change prisma.js on the prisma constructor function provide the secret
    in order to continue using prisma at 4466 provide an authorization token via http headers found in the bottom left of the prisma playground
    {
        "Authorization" : "Bearer ReplaceThisWithPrismaGeneratedToken"
    }
    to get the token, cd into prisma folder then prisma token
67 - added password: String! to datamodel and schema.graphql, delete bd data, redeploy, then regenerate prisma/graphql with run get-schema and changed .graphqlconfig to get around the prisma password by pointing at local prisma folder instead of 4466 via "prisma":"prisma/prisma.yml" extnesion
68 in mutation.js: take in pw, validate pw length, hash pw with bcrypt(uninstalled uuid, installed bcrypt), generate auth token, changed schema.graphql  created type AuthPayload and changed createUser(data: CreateUserInput!): User! to return AuthPayload! instead
69 - use JSON web token to provide a password token
        //install jsonwebtoken
        //learning:
        // jwt.sign({payload}, secret )
        const token = jwt.sign({ id: 46 }, 'mysecret')
        //payload is not meant to be encrypted - it is public
        console.log(token)
        const decoded = jwt.decode(token)
        console.log(decoded)
        //we only want to trust what comes back from verified web tokens
        //so:
        const decoded2 = jwt.verify(token, 'mysecret')
        console.log(decoded2)
        //copy webtoken from console, take to jwt.io
        //token sections: header, payload, signiture, seperated by periods, signature is a hash
70 -  set up login mutation - not totally functioning: Illegal arguments: string, undefined in the playground
-






-









-Where I'm stuck
38 updatePost mutation will not affect the Boolean status of published
39: testing comment subscription:
    ok: subscritions to creates work
    probmlem: subscriptions to update: subscription page seems frozen? seems odd behavior
        update mutation is returning the update ok, so where does the problem lie?
    ok: subscriptions to delete: subscription seems to see the delete, but
    resovled problem: I get a data null error deletedComments is not defined for return value in the deleteComment mutation
        this last one i would guess that I am not handling my deletedComment catch array correctly
        ** tracked this down to another extra s, I had deletedComments when I needed deletedComment for my return value in my deletecomment mutation

47: my postgres instance is not automatically creating the updated at or the created at columns - why not?
52: I've got 2 things going on that I can't track down:
        1. my prisma.query.users async function in prisma.js is not logging the query to the console.
        * now it seems to have resolved itself?
    2.  when I try to check tables in my database with pg admin I get an error that reads:
        FATAL: too many connections for role "bmrduerfgyrtgs"
            I found this stackoverflow thread
                https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25058649/psql-fatal-too-many-connections-for-role
                that suggests deleting the processes listed in "Database Activity" in the Dashboard Tab, but I do not have and can not locate a dashboard tab.  pgadmin 4.8
            I'm wondering if these problems are related to one another.
54: another unhandled promise rejection
    narrowed down to somewhere inside update post for user function
    perhaps I just need a catch?
70: "message": "Illegal arguments: string, undefined"
    in the playground, trying to run a login mutation
    i feel like i have the mutation written correctly:
    mutation{
  login(
    data:{
      email:"prisma3@testemail",
      password:"red12345"
    }
    I do get back my error message if i submit incorrect email/password combination
    so how is my argument illegal, how is the string undefinde?
    ok, this is interesting, if I submit an incorrect password, I don't get my error message
    instead I get this illegal argument message.  interesting.
    so something is wrong with how the password is (not) working

    
-




How I got unstuck

25 instructor answered question
    in my Post resolver I had: Post:{
        author(parent, args, ctx, info){
            //the Post information lives on the parent argument so we can use that to figure out which user object needs to get returned
            return users.find(()=>
        {
            return users.id === parent.author
        })
        instructor stated: Thanks for the details! The issue is in this function. It's looking at users.id which doesn't exist. It should be looking at the id property of the array item instead.

    so I think I needed to change users.id to user.id because I don't want to look at the users array, I want to look at "this" specific user
    My createPost mutation is returning an error message about non-nullable fields, but I think I've filled out each field



26 we added     I never got unstuck, but just ignored the error message.
    I did run into some problems starting the server, but after re-watching video I tracked that
    down to having incorrect words in my .babelrc plugins file

    npm install babel-plugin-transform-object-rest-spread

    and I got the following error messages:

        npm WARN apollo-cache-control@0.1.1 requires a peer of graphql@0.10.x - 0.13.x but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
        npm WARN apollo-server-core@1.4.0 requires a peer of graphql@^0.9.0 || ^0.10.0 || ^0.11.0 || ^0.12.0 || ^0.13.0 but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
        npm WARN apollo-tracing@0.1.4 requires a peer of graphql@0.10.x - 0.13.x but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
        npm WARN graphql-extensions@0.0.10 requires a peer of graphql@0.10.x - 0.13.x but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
        npm WARN graphql-subscriptions@0.5.8 requires a peer of graphql@^0.10.5 || ^0.11.3 || ^0.12.0 || ^0.13.0 but none is installed. You must install peer dependencies yourself.
        npm WARN grap
    yet my package.json dependancy is     "graphql": "^14.3.1",
    reverting back to an early version does not seem like the move






27 when you get an error back saying that something is not defined you need to look to see if you needed to feed in a value somewhere in to a parameter
    Running the createPost mutation in playground I get: 
    {
  "data": null,
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "user is not defined",
      I am using an id that is hard coded into my user array to define the author
      when I use a non-existant author id I am gettting my error message
      how can the user not be defined?  it is not saying that the user does not exist, 
      just that it is not defined.  how can I be missing the clues?

33: cannont return null for non-nullable
    I gotta figure this one out. I've run into this three times, why havn't I learned my lesson?
    ALWAYS RETURN SOMETHING
38: once again, the dreaded cannont return null for non-nullable field Subscription.post
    once again, same problem, in a function I had an object as plural when it should have been singular
39 once again, cannont return null for non-nullable field Subscription.comment
    I know the createComment mutation is working, as the playground returns the information,
    plus I can see it with comment query.  
    I have line by lined Subscription.js 3x
    I have line by lined the schema.graphql
    **finally found it as a misnamed object from when I copy and pasted some sections to use as a template
    ** problem was in the pubsub section of createComment on mutation.js
51: at npm run i get Error: Cannot find module '../lib/cli'
    i see that I had this problem last time I did the course as well
    previous solution worked this time as well: node-modules do not like to be copy and pasted.  I deleted and npm installed new ones
51: at npm start i get: Error: Cannot find module './prisma'
    I may have installed this in the basics project by accident
    this problems was that I had placed ./prisma in the basics project instead of the prisma project, eye roll
51:  no such file or directory, open 'src/genrated/prisma.graphql'
    so, where am I making that misspelled request? terminal error print out does not make it easy to find
    it was in the prisma.js - maybe I got that info from the terminal, more like I just got lucky
53: unhandled promis rejection: misspelled an argument in a console.log - saw by total randomness
    UnhandledPromiseRejectionWarning: [object Array]
    (node:15207) UnhandledPromiseRejectionWarning: Unhandled promise rejection. This error originated either by throwing inside of an async function without a catch block, or by rejecting a promise which was not handled with .catch(). (rejection id: 2)
    (node:15207) [DEP0018] DeprecationWarning: Unhandled promise rejections are deprecated. In the future, promise rejections that are not handled will terminate the Node.js process with a non-zero exit code.
-

